# Introduction

This folder contains:

- swanlog: Log files generated by module `swanlab` (similar to WandB).
- train.ipynb: Contains all codes for training these models, including data loading, training and a simple implementation of reloading models and evaluation.

4 SFT models LoRA weights from Qwen/Qwen2.5-3B are shared through Google Drive:

- [qwen2.5-3B-Orig-Orig](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1baAR3cJgiDpq8FP9116zRyelyuM7pIG9/view?usp=drive_link): Trained directly on gsm8k without quantization.
- [qwen2.5-3B-Distill-Orig](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tW6UdNRNu7tUSkoe01BnIFpFxBSMU1bZ/view?usp=drive_link): Trained on distilled gsm8k data (question - answer pairs with reasoning) from Qwen/Qwen3.5-397B-A17B without quantization.
- [qwen2.5-3B-Orig-Quant](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1VFXWXDsCSdsyWDRsTEH_XkXFIBGWVoCU/view?usp=drive_link): Trained directly on gsm8k with NF4 quantization.
- [qwen2.5-3B-Distill-Quant](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11CG1mS8rMtn_bYN7WmhGbmfuLKCndKkH/view?usp=drive_link): Trained on distilled gsm8k data with NF4 quantization.

# Settings

Advised by @jerryjsjsj123, we only used first 3k data of gsm8k and split it into 2 data sets: train (90%) and val (10%) where val is used in calculating simple loss (cross entropy) for detecting evidence of model overfitting and never used to train. All models LoRA weights are saved at checkpoints when val loss reaches its minimum (Note: not when val acc is maximum!).

Data are all loaded and embedded by the same tokenizer of qwen2.5-3B. Since no `<think>` token or other special tokens were added, we simply assemble the distilled response into gsm8k-styled data. Decided upon both RAM size and #(tokens) (max = 357) of the data, we set `max_length=512`.

All models parameters are in type `bf16` or `torch.bfloat16`. LoRA ranks are set to 16 with `alpha=32` and `lora_dropout=0.1`. Targeted modules include all QKV and linear maps in transformer blocks. In total, the model has 29,933,568 parameters to be trained, 0.96% of the original #(params) = 3,115,872,256.

Training hyperparameters are: `lr=2e-5`, `num_workers=16` for dataloaders (Not bottleneck), `num_epochs=7`, `weight_decay=0.01` for AdamW optimizer.

# Loading the weights

To load these weights, one can use `transformers.AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained` for the original model, the same `transformers.BitsAndBytesConfig` for quantized models and `peft.PeftModel.from_pretrained` for all SFT models, with the declared function call be `PeftModel.from_pretrained(base_model_name_or_path, sft_weights_name_or_path)`.
